README.md, before:

# arena-research

Are.na research agent for [Claude Code](https://code.claude.com) and [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai). Search, browse channels, follow the connection graph — all from the terminal.

## What it does

Wraps the Are.na API into a fast CLI so your AI agent (or you) can search for curated collections, browse channel contents, follow block connections across channels, and discover how people organize ideas. When used by an agent, it follows a research loop — decompose a question into searches, explore the most promising channels, follow the connection graph to discover adjacent ideas, identify key curators, and synthesize everything into a sourced briefing.

- **Search** across channels, blocks, and users with type filtering
- **Browse** channel contents with sorting and type filters
- **Graph traversal** — find which channels a block appears in, or which channels share content
- **Research briefs** — agent synthesizes findings into themed briefings with channels, curators, and linked resources
- **Quick mode** for fast, cached lookups
- **User profiles** — explore a curator's channels
- **Cache** to avoid redundant API calls (15min default, 1hr in quick mode)

## Install

### Claude Code
```bash
# From your project
mkdir -p .claude/skills
cd .claude/skills
git clone https://github.com/givenness/arena-research-skill.git arena-research
```

### OpenClaw
```bash
# From your workspace
mkdir -p skills
cd skills
git clone https://github.com/givenness/arena-research-skill.git arena-research
```

## Setup

1. **Are.na Personal Access Token** — Get one from [Are.na Settings](https://www.are.na/settings/personal-access-tokens)
2. **Set the env var:**
   ```bash
   export ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN="your-token-here"
   ```
   Or save it to `~/.config/env/global.env`:
   ```
   ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-token-here
   ```
3. **Install Bun** (for CLI tooling): https://bun.sh

Most endpoints work with public content, but search requires a token.

## Usage

### Natural language (just talk to Claude)
- "Search Are.na for community radio"
- "What channels are about tools for thought?"
- "Browse the arena-influences channel"
- "Who's curating brutalist web design on Are.na?"
- "What other channels does this block appear in?"

### CLI commands

```bash
cd skills/arena-research
```

#### Search

```bash
# Search everything
bun run arena-search.ts search "community radio"

# Channels only
bun run arena-search.ts search "tools for thought" --type Channel

# Links only (external references)
bun run arena-search.ts search "cybernetics" --type Link --per 50

# Search your own collections
bun run arena-search.ts search "design" --scope my

# Search content from people you follow
bun run arena-search.ts search "design" --scope following

# Quick mode
bun run arena-search.ts search "brutalist web design" --quick
```

**Search options:**
```
--type Channel|Block|Text|Image|Link|User   Filter result type
--sort score|created|updated|connections     Sort order (default: score)
--scope all|my|following                     Search scope (default: all)
--per N                                      Results per page (default: 24, max: 100)
--page N                                     Page number
--quick                                      Quick mode (see below)
--save                                       Save to ~/clawd/drafts/
--json                                       Raw JSON output
--markdown                                   Formatted markdown output
```

#### Channel

```bash
# Browse channel contents
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences

# Links only
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences --type Link --per 50

# Sort by most recent
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences --sort created

# Find connected channels (channels that share blocks with this one)
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences --connections
```

**Channel options:**
```
--sort position|created|updated   Content sort (default: position)
--type Text|Image|Link|Channel    Filter content type
--per N / --page N                Pagination
--connections                     Show connected channels instead of contents
--save / --json / --markdown      Output format
```

#### Block

```bash
# View a single block
bun run arena-search.ts block 3235876

# Find which channels this block appears in
bun run arena-search.ts block 3235876 --connections
```

A block in many channels = high-signal content. The channels it appears in show how different people contextualize the same idea.

#### User

```bash
# View user profile and channels
bun run arena-search.ts user charles-broskoski
```

#### Me

```bash
# Your own profile (requires token)
bun run arena-search.ts me
```

#### Cache

```bash
# Clear all cached data
bun run arena-search.ts cache clear
```

## Quick Mode

`--quick` is designed for fast, cheap lookups.

**What it does:**
- Forces `--type Channel` (channels only)
- Forces `--sort connections` (most-connected first)
- Limits to 10 results
- Uses 1-hour cache TTL instead of 15 minutes

**Examples:**
```bash
bun run arena-search.ts search "tools for thought" --quick
bun run arena-search.ts search "brutalist web design" --quick
```

## Research Briefs

When you ask Claude to research a topic on Are.na, it doesn't just run a single search. It follows a multi-step research loop defined in `SKILL.md`:

1. **Decompose** the question into 3-5 search queries from different angles (direct terms, adjacent concepts, practitioner language)
2. **Search and assess** — run each query, identify channels with real depth (50+ items), spot recurring curators
3. **Explore top channels** — fetch contents, filter for links and text blocks
4. **Follow the connection graph** — check which channels a high-signal block appears in, find channels that share content with ones you're exploring
5. **Identify key curators** — users who appear repeatedly get their profiles explored
6. **Synthesize** — group findings by theme into a briefing with sourced channels, notable content, curators, and connected territory

The output is a markdown briefing saved to `~/clawd/drafts/`. Example: asking Claude to research "community radio and internet broadcasting" produced a briefing with 8 themes, 15+ explored channels, 500+ scanned blocks, and 8 identified curators — all from CLI calls.

## How search works

Search uses the **Are.na v2 API** for public discovery. The v3 search endpoint biases results toward the authenticated user's network, making it useless for finding new content. v2 returns globally relevant results.

When you use `--scope my` or `--scope following`, search falls back to v3 where auth-scoped results are the intended behavior.

All other commands (channel, block, user) use the v3 API.

## File structure

```
arena-research/
├── SKILL.md              # Agent instructions (Claude reads this)
├── arena-search.ts       # CLI entry point
├── lib/
│   ├── api.ts            # Are.na API wrapper (v2 search + v3 everything else)
│   ├── cache.ts          # File-based cache (15min default TTL)
│   └── format.ts         # Terminal + markdown formatters
├── data/
│   └── cache/            # Auto-managed
└── references/
    └── arena-api.md      # API reference with confirmed response shapes
```

## Security

**Token handling:** arena-search reads your token from the `ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN` env var or `~/.config/env/global.env`. The token is never printed to stdout, but be aware:

- **AI coding agents** (Claude Code, Codex, etc.) may log tool calls — including HTTP headers — in session transcripts. If you're running arena-search inside an agent session, your token could appear in those logs.
- **Recommendations:**
  - Set `ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN` as a system env var (not inline in commands)
  - Review your agent's session log settings
  - Use a dedicated token for agent use
  - Rotate your token if you suspect exposure

## Limitations

- **Search relevance is API-default** — v2 search doesn't support sort params reliably. Client-side sorting is available for `--sort created`, `--sort updated`, and `--sort connections`, but `--sort score` returns results in whatever order the API provides.
- **Read-only** — never creates, modifies, or deletes Are.na content
- **Rate limits** — Guest: 30 req/min, Free: 120, Premium: 300, Supporter: 600. Cache and a 200ms inter-request delay help stay within limits.
- **Pagination, not cursor-based** — large result sets use `page`/`per` params
- **v2 search requires auth** — even though it returns globally-scoped results, unauthenticated requests get 401
- **Are.na v3 API is "work in progress"** — some endpoints may change

## Acknowledgments

Inspired by [x-research-skill](https://github.com/rohunvora/x-research-skill) by [@rohunvora](https://github.com/rohunvora).

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Harden skill for portability: declare deps, remove secret file access, use relative paths
- Add requires/env/includes metadata to SKILL.md frontmatter
- Remove ~/.config/env/global.env sourcing from SKILL.md, api.ts, README, CLAUDE.md
- getToken() now only reads process.env.ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN (no file fallback)
- Replace hardcoded cd ~/clawd/skills/arena-research with relative path instructions
- Add bun availability check as explicit install step

README.md, after:

# arena-research

Are.na research agent for [Claude Code](https://code.claude.com) and [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai). Search, browse channels, follow the connection graph — all from the terminal.

## What it does

Wraps the Are.na API into a fast CLI so your AI agent (or you) can search for curated collections, browse channel contents, follow block connections across channels, and discover how people organize ideas. When used by an agent, it follows a research loop — decompose a question into searches, explore the most promising channels, follow the connection graph to discover adjacent ideas, identify key curators, and synthesize everything into a sourced briefing.

- **Search** across channels, blocks, and users with type filtering
- **Browse** channel contents with sorting and type filters
- **Graph traversal** — find which channels a block appears in, or which channels share content
- **Research briefs** — agent synthesizes findings into themed briefings with channels, curators, and linked resources
- **Quick mode** for fast, cached lookups
- **User profiles** — explore a curator's channels
- **Cache** to avoid redundant API calls (15min default, 1hr in quick mode)

## Install

### Claude Code
```bash
# From your project
mkdir -p .claude/skills
cd .claude/skills
git clone https://github.com/givenness/arena-research-skill.git arena-research
```

### OpenClaw
```bash
# From your workspace
mkdir -p skills
cd skills
git clone https://github.com/givenness/arena-research-skill.git arena-research
```

## Setup

1. **Are.na Personal Access Token** — Get one from [Are.na Settings](https://www.are.na/settings/personal-access-tokens)
2. **Set the env var** — however your system manages secrets (shell profile, dotenvx, 1Password CLI, etc.):
   ```bash
   export ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN="your-token-here"
   ```
3. **Install Bun** (for CLI tooling): https://bun.sh

Most endpoints work with public content, but search requires a token.

## Usage

### Natural language (just talk to Claude)
- "Search Are.na for community radio"
- "What channels are about tools for thought?"
- "Browse the arena-influences channel"
- "Who's curating brutalist web design on Are.na?"
- "What other channels does this block appear in?"

### CLI commands

```bash
# Run from the skill's root directory (where arena-search.ts lives)
```

#### Search

```bash
# Search everything
bun run arena-search.ts search "community radio"

# Channels only
bun run arena-search.ts search "tools for thought" --type Channel

# Links only (external references)
bun run arena-search.ts search "cybernetics" --type Link --per 50

# Search your own collections
bun run arena-search.ts search "design" --scope my

# Search content from people you follow
bun run arena-search.ts search "design" --scope following

# Quick mode
bun run arena-search.ts search "brutalist web design" --quick
```

**Search options:**
```
--type Channel|Block|Text|Image|Link|User   Filter result type
--sort score|created|updated|connections     Sort order (default: score)
--scope all|my|following                     Search scope (default: all)
--per N                                      Results per page (default: 24, max: 100)
--page N                                     Page number
--quick                                      Quick mode (see below)
--save                                       Save to ~/clawd/drafts/
--json                                       Raw JSON output
--markdown                                   Formatted markdown output
```

#### Channel

```bash
# Browse channel contents
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences

# Links only
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences --type Link --per 50

# Sort by most recent
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences --sort created

# Find connected channels (channels that share blocks with this one)
bun run arena-search.ts channel arena-influences --connections
```

**Channel options:**
```
--sort position|created|updated   Content sort (default: position)
--type Text|Image|Link|Channel    Filter content type
--per N / --page N                Pagination
--connections                     Show connected channels instead of contents
--save / --json / --markdown      Output format
```

#### Block

```bash
# View a single block
bun run arena-search.ts block 3235876

# Find which channels this block appears in
bun run arena-search.ts block 3235876 --connections
```

A block in many channels = high-signal content. The channels it appears in show how different people contextualize the same idea.

#### User

```bash
# View user profile and channels
bun run arena-search.ts user charles-broskoski
```

#### Me

```bash
# Your own profile (requires token)
bun run arena-search.ts me
```

#### Cache

```bash
# Clear all cached data
bun run arena-search.ts cache clear
```

## Quick Mode

`--quick` is designed for fast, cheap lookups.

**What it does:**
- Forces `--type Channel` (channels only)
- Forces `--sort connections` (most-connected first)
- Limits to 10 results
- Uses 1-hour cache TTL instead of 15 minutes

**Examples:**
```bash
bun run arena-search.ts search "tools for thought" --quick
bun run arena-search.ts search "brutalist web design" --quick
```

## Research Briefs

When you ask Claude to research a topic on Are.na, it doesn't just run a single search. It follows a multi-step research loop defined in `SKILL.md`:

1. **Decompose** the question into 3-5 search queries from different angles (direct terms, adjacent concepts, practitioner language)
2. **Search and assess** — run each query, identify channels with real depth (50+ items), spot recurring curators
3. **Explore top channels** — fetch contents, filter for links and text blocks
4. **Follow the connection graph** — check which channels a high-signal block appears in, find channels that share content with ones you're exploring
5. **Identify key curators** — users who appear repeatedly get their profiles explored
6. **Synthesize** — group findings by theme into a briefing with sourced channels, notable content, curators, and connected territory

The output is a markdown briefing saved to `~/clawd/drafts/`. Example: asking Claude to research "community radio and internet broadcasting" produced a briefing with 8 themes, 15+ explored channels, 500+ scanned blocks, and 8 identified curators — all from CLI calls.

## How search works

Search uses the **Are.na v2 API** for public discovery. The v3 search endpoint biases results toward the authenticated user's network, making it useless for finding new content. v2 returns globally relevant results.

When you use `--scope my` or `--scope following`, search falls back to v3 where auth-scoped results are the intended behavior.

All other commands (channel, block, user) use the v3 API.

## File structure

```
arena-research/
├── SKILL.md              # Agent instructions (Claude reads this)
├── arena-search.ts       # CLI entry point
├── lib/
│   ├── api.ts            # Are.na API wrapper (v2 search + v3 everything else)
│   ├── cache.ts          # File-based cache (15min default TTL)
│   └── format.ts         # Terminal + markdown formatters
├── data/
│   └── cache/            # Auto-managed
└── references/
    └── arena-api.md      # API reference with confirmed response shapes
```

## Security

**Token handling:** arena-search reads your token from the `ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable. The token is never printed to stdout, but be aware:

- **AI coding agents** (Claude Code, Codex, etc.) may log tool calls — including HTTP headers — in session transcripts. If you're running arena-search inside an agent session, your token could appear in those logs.
- **Recommendations:**
  - Set `ARENA_ACCESS_TOKEN` as a system env var (not inline in commands)
  - Review your agent's session log settings
  - Use a dedicated token for agent use
  - Rotate your token if you suspect exposure

## Limitations

- **Search relevance is API-default** — v2 search doesn't support sort params reliably. Client-side sorting is available for `--sort created`, `--sort updated`, and `--sort connections`, but `--sort score` returns results in whatever order the API provides.
- **Read-only** — never creates, modifies, or deletes Are.na content
- **Rate limits** — Guest: 30 req/min, Free: 120, Premium: 300, Supporter: 600. Cache and a 200ms inter-request delay help stay within limits.
- **Pagination, not cursor-based** — large result sets use `page`/`per` params
- **v2 search requires auth** — even though it returns globally-scoped results, unauthenticated requests get 401
- **Are.na v3 API is "work in progress"** — some endpoints may change

## Acknowledgments

Inspired by [x-research-skill](https://github.com/rohunvora/x-research-skill) by [@rohunvora](https://github.com/rohunvora).

## License

MIT
